.TH GENI-SYNC-WIRELESS 1 "September 13, 2016"
.SH NAME
geni-sync-wireless \- Synchronize ORBIT and GENI CH sense of projects/groups and members
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B geni-sync-wireless
[\fB--holdingpen_group \fIGROUP\fR]
[\fB--holdingpen-admin \fIADMIN\fR]
[\fB--project \fIPROJECT\fR]
[\fB--user \fIUSERNAME\fR]
[\fB--cleanup\fR]
[\fB--key \fIKEY_FILE\fR]
[\fB--certificate \fICERTIFICATE_FILE\fR]
[\fB--url \fISERVICE_REGISTRY_URL\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Perform synchronization between GENI clearinghouse wireless-enabled projects
and ORBIT groups, and their corresponding leads and membership rosters.
A wireless-enabled project is one with the `enable_wimax' attribute.
In `cleanup' mode (invoked by --cleanup), groups and members are deleted
from ORBIT if they are not found in corresponding GENI CH wireless-enabled
projects and members. Otherwise (non-cleanup mode) new projects and members
are written but not deleted.

The intended use of this script is that it be run in `cleanup' mode
periodically, say nightly. Otherwise, it should be run for specific
projects when the `ORBIT sync' button on the wimax-enable.php page is pressed.

All GENI members that have ever been a member of SOME wireless-enabled project
are made members of the `holdingpen' group on ORBIT. In addition, they
are made members of any group corresponding to any wireless-enabled projects
to which they belong. When these projects are no longer wireless-enabled,
or when the given user is not a member of such a project, their membership
in the corresponding ORBIT group is removed, but the membership in the
holdingpen group remains.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--holdingpen_group <group name>
Name of group holding all GENI users regardless of additional membership in
wireless-enabled group. Default: geni-HOLDINGPEN.
.TP
\fB--holdingpen_admin <admin username>
Username in GENI CH of admin of holdingpen group. Default: agosain.
.TP
\fB--project <project name>
[Optional]Name of project for which to perform sync between GENI and ORBIT
state.
.TP
\fB--user <username>
[Optional]Name of user for which to perform sync between GENI and ORBIT state.
.TP
\fB--cleanup
Remove all ORBIT groups and members that don't correspond to current GENI
wireless-enabled projects and members. Default: false.
.TP
\fB-k, --key <key file>
User/service key for making API calls. Must be an authority or operator.
.TP
\fB-c, --certificate <certificate file>
User/service certificate for making API calls. Must be an authority or
operator.
.TP
\fB-u, --url <URL>
URL of service registry. Member Authority, Slice Authority, and WiMAX (Orbit)
service are looked up in the service registry.

.SH AUTHOR
geni-sync-wireless was written by Raytheon BBN Technologies.
