.TH GENI-PARSE-MAP-DATA 1 "June 10, 2014"
.SH NAME
geni-parse-map-data \- generate GeoJSON map data from parsing RSpecs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B geni-parse-map-data
\fB-c \fICONFIG\fR
[\fB-s \fIDIRECTORY\fR]
[\fB-o \fIOUTPUT\fR]
[\fB-d \fIDATABASE\fR]
[\fB--host \fIHOST\fR]
[\fB-u \fIUSER\fR]
[\fB--debug\fR]
[\fB--silent\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B geni-parse-map-data
generates a GeoJSON-compatible file based on the location information given
in advertisement RSpecs of various aggregate managers (AMs). The GeoJSON file
can be used for displaying a map of all GENI resources on the portal webpage.

The parser looks for all valid ad RSpecs in a user-defined directory and
attempts to collect various attributes about each GENI resource in those RSpecs,
including (fields from \fB<node>\fR or \fB<openflow:datapath>\fR elements
included for reference):
.IP \(em 4
resource's name (parsed from \fBcomponent_id\fR)
.IP \(em 4
resource's URN (\fBcomponent_id\fR)
.IP \(em 4
resource's type (guessed from parsing \fBcomponent_id\fR)
.IP \(em 4
resource's location (\fBlatitude\fR and \fBlongitude\fR)
.IP \(em 4
resource's AM's name (parsed from \fBcomponent_manager_id\fR or queried from
the service registry if available)
.IP \(em 4
resource's AM's URN (\fBcomponent_manager_id\fR)
.LP
At minimum, a resource must have a URN and an AM URN to be added to the
GeoJSON file. When location information isn't present, the resource gets a
default latitude/longitude of 0.0, 0.0.

Errors are displayed when a file cannot be parsed or when a resource cannot be
added to the GeoJSON file. The program terminates if a connection cannot be made
to the database or if no resources were found in the specified directory.

The user is assumed to have a \fB.pgpass\fR file to access the PostgreSQL
database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--configfile \fICONFIG
Path of omni configuration file (required)
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--save \fIDIRECTORY
Path of directory to search for saved RSpecs (default is './')
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--output \fIOUTPUT
Path of directory to save the output GeoJSON file (default is 'current.json')
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--database \fIDATABASE
Database name (default is 'portal')
.TP
\fB--host \fIHOST
Database hostname (default is 'localhost')
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--user \fIUSER
Database user (default is 'portal')
.TP
\fB--debug
Show verbose debugging information.
.TP
\fB--silent
Silence all info and debug messages but show errors.
.SH EXAMPLES
Parse all RSpecs in the directory \fBmy_rspecs\fR and save output to
\fBcurrent.json\fR in the working directory:

    geni-parse-map-data -c ~/.gcf/omni_config -s my_rspecs
        
Parse all RSpecs in the directory \fBmy_rspecs\fR and save output to
\fBpath/to/my/output.json\fR:

    geni-parse-map-data -c ~/.gcf/omni_config -s my_rspecs \\
        -o path/to/my/output.json

Run silently but show errors if they occur:

    geni-parse-map-data -c ~/.gcf/omni_config -s path/to/my/rspecs \\
        -o my_output.json --silent

Get verbose output of what's going on:

    geni-parse-map-data -c ~/.gcf/omni_config -s path/to/my/rspecs \\
        -o my_output.json --debug

.SH AUTHOR
geni-parse-map-data was written by Raytheon BBN Technologies.
