.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH GENI-INSTALL-TEMPLATES 1 "September 3, 2015"
.SH NAME
geni-portal-install-templates \- Instantiate and install templated files
for GENI configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B geni-install-templates
.I \-\-templates_file \ <TEMPLATES_FILE>
.I \-\-parameters_file \ <PARAMETERS_FILE> 
.I \-\-templates_directory \ <TEMPLATES_DIRECTORY> 
.I \-\-print_parameter <PARAM_NAME>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B geni-portal-install-templates
instantiates a set of template files listed in the 'templates' file and
substitutes @PARAM@ entries in the file with PARAMVAL in the templated file
based on an entry in the parameters file that maps PARAM to PARAMVAL. 

It then copies the edited template file to the location specified in the
templates file and does appropriate chmod and chown commands.

If the argument provided is '--print_parameter', the program prints the
current value of the given parameter as specified in the parameters_file
and exits.

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-\-templates_file <TEMPLATES_FILE>
The name of the templates file (default=./templates.json)
.TP
.B \-\-parameters_file <PARAMETERS_FILE>
The name of the parameters file (default=./parameters.json)
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-templates_directory <TEMPLATES_DIRECTORY>
The name of the directory in which to find the templated files (default=.)
.TP
.B \-\-print_parameter <PARAM_NAME>
Print the current value of the parameter of given name from the parameters file and exit.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH AUTHOR
geni-portal-install-templates was written by Raytheon BBN Technologies.
