.TH GENI-GET-AD-RSPECS 1 "June 10, 2014"
.SH NAME
geni-get-ad-rspecs \- query all AMs in the SR for advertisement RSpecs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B geni-get-ad-rspecs
\fB-c \fICONFIG\fR
[\fB-s \fIDIRECTORY\fR]
[\fB-d \fIDATABASE\fR]
[\fB--host \fIHOST\fR]
[\fB-u \fIUSER\fR]
[\fB--debug\fR]
[\fB--silent\fR]
[\fB--cleanup\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B geni-get-ad-rspecs
queries all of the aggregate managers (AMs) in the service registry (SR) for
their advertisement RSpecs. It queries the SR for a list of AMs, calls
\fBomni\fR's listresources and saves each returned RSpec, and verifies
that each saved RSpec contains a valid XML structure and at least one <rspec>
element.

Files that are downloaded are first stored in the OS's temporary directory (e.g.
\fB/tmp/rspecs/\fR on Linux). Valid files are moved to the user-specified
directory. Invalid files are left in the temporary directory. Cleanup of the
temporary directory occurs every time \fBgeni-get-ad-rspecs\fR is called.

The user is assumed to have a \fB.pgpass\fR file to access the PostgreSQL
database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--configfile \fICONFIG
Path of omni configuration file (required)
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--save \fIDIRECTORY
Path of directory to save ad RSpecs (default is './')
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--database \fIDATABASE
Database name (default is 'portal')
.TP
\fB--host \fIHOST
Database hostname (default is 'localhost')
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--user \fIUSER
Database user (default is 'portal')
.TP
\fB--debug
Show verbose debugging information.
.TP
\fB--silent
Silence all info and debug messages but show errors.
.TP
\fB--cleanup
Delete all .xml files remaining in the temporary directory (i.e. all invalid
RSpecs) when completed.
.SH EXAMPLES
Query all AMs of a service registry running on the local machine:

    geni-get-ad-rspecs -c ~/.gcf/omni_config -s ~/my_rspecs
    
Query all AMs of a service registry running on an external machine:

    geni-get-ad-rspecs -c ~/.gcf/omni_config -s ~/my_rspecs \\
        --host ch.geni.net

Run silently but show errors if they occur:

    geni-get-ad-rspecs -c ~/.gcf/omni_config -s ~/my_rspecs \\
        --silent

Run silently and remove invalid RSpecs at the end:

    geni-get-ad-rspecs -c ~/.gcf/omni_config -s ~/my_rspecs \\
        --silent --cleanup
        
.SH AUTHOR
geni-get-ad-rspecs was written by Raytheon BBN Technologies.
